>> Speaker 1: I could go get all
the Grudges out of the database.
But you saw that I just created the
database, so there's nothing in there yet.
So let's actually start this
little playground here.
Let's start by putting some
data into the database.
So again, changing the data in a graphQL
database is called a mutation.
We're mutating the state.
So we'll say mutation.
And I have to give it some kind of name.
This is, again,
what we want to call this mutation.
This will be useful when we
have more than one on the page.
This play button become a drop-down,
but you can literally name it sandwich,
it doesn't matter.
The second one is the more important one.
This is the mutation from that schema.
And so yes, I've named them roughly
the same thing, but that is mostly for
my own sanity.
And if we were to look at this schema,
we can see that it takes an input,
which is a type of grudge input,
or create grudge input.
Which is basically what are the things
that we need in order to make a grudge?
Well, we need a person.
>> Speaker 1: And
we need a deed.
we need to say whether or
not it's been avenged.
And it kinda stinks that I have
to put this in by hand right now.
In a little bit, we'll look at how
to actually have default values
in AppSync by working with the resolvers.
But we'll start with this for now.
And so,
this is how we go about creating one.
And then, what do we want back?
Well, we'll have an ID created for us.
We'll have the person.
>> Speaker 1: We'll have the deed that
they did.
>> Speaker 1: And
we'll have whether or not it was avenged.
We can get all of these back.
We can get some of them back.
This is just simply what you'll get
back from GraphUL after you create
the resource.
So we'll go ahead and we'll hit Play.
And you can see that it
generated an ID for me.
And then, there's all of
the things we want in there.
Now, if you don't need all of
those back for some reason,
if you only wanted the ID and you wanna
keep the way you had client-side,
you can just simply remove properties from
here and you just won't get them back.
They'll still be stored in the database,
cuz you passed them in here, but
you just won't get them
back in the response.
Because we wanna be able to get more
than one, we'll also go ahead and
create a few more.
>> Speaker 1: And so, for instance,
I'll just take the data out in this case,
just to verify that it works.
It's still saved, we're just not
getting it back in the response.
Who else are we angry at?
>> Speaker 1: Someone who could actually
run to second.
>> Speaker 1: That is a true story,
I don't wanna talk about it right now,
but it's a thing.
So I back deed in this case,
you'll see that's now returned.
All right, so
we've got three grudges in there.
That feels like enough.
I mean, I've got a lot more grudges, but
these are enough to
like test the database.
Not to like,
we don't need to air all this here.
I can pay a therapist for that.
All right, so
we've got this idea of creating grudges.
It'd be interesting if we
could get a particular grudge.
So here, we've got this ID.
I'll just copy that real quick.
I'm gonna treat myself to copying it with
the quotes.
>> Speaker 1: And so,
we can make another one,
which is a query, right?
That's how we get stuff from the database.
We'll say, get grudge.
And again, that is an arbitrary name.
I could name it sandwich,
I'm not going to.
But then,
what actual query do we wanna do?
That is defined in our schema.
See also the very helpful auto complete.
And so, we need an ID,
and we'll pass this one in.
>> Speaker 1: And from there,
we'll say I want the ID back,
I want the person, I want the deed,
and I want whether or
not it was avenged, right?
So this is, again,
a useful place to play around with if you
wanna get comfortable and try stuff out.
So now that I have two,
I can choose which one I wanna do.
Which is why I gave them useful names.
Otherwise it'd be really difficult.
If they're both called sandwich and
taco, it's hard.
All right, so
we'll get back all of those properties.
If we didn't need all of them,
for whatever view,
a lot of times when we have APIs, we
basically get whatever the API gives us.
A lot of the control of what an API
gives us in that response is controlled
by the person who made the API.
In GraphQL, the scheme is defined, but
then the consumer is the one that gets to
choose what they need back from the APIs.
If I don't need whether or
not it was avenged for
whatever list view,
I can just take that off.
And now,
it's not included in the response.
All right, so you can do really
interesting stuff like that.
So I can get a particular
one if I know the ID.
But if you think about Grudge Point app,
there's no point where we're doing that.
We're basically fetching
that list of all of them.
So let's talk a little bit about
how to get a list of grudges.
>> Speaker 1: So we'll go ahead and
take it for a spin.
Let's make one called Query.
And just to show that they don't have to
match with the actual name of the query,
we'll do GetAllOfTheGrudges.
>> Speaker 1: It's gonna to call the list
Grudges query, but just to prove to you
that they don't need to be the same.
>> Speaker 1: So listGrudges.
And what that's going to do is it's
going to get me an items array.
And we'll just start with the person.
Now again,
this is the same as it is up here.
If I want the person and
the deed, I can add that, and
we'll try it out.
>> Speaker 1: All right,
so here is all of the people.
If I just wanted all of the deeds.
>> Speaker 1: If I wanted the person and
whether or not they've revenged,
I can do that as well.
>> Speaker 1: Right, I get to choose
what data I need for my UI, right?
So there are a lot of ways to think
about how to encharge GraphQLs.
Look at your UI,
figure out the properties that you need,
and then go ahead and
ask just for those properties.
The other thing that we have in place,
if we look at the schema real quick,
go back.
>> Speaker 1: Is that grudge connection.
So the grudge connection
is how we get that items.
That's where items is coming from,
it's an array of grudges.
And there's also this nextToken, right?
And so, if we try it out,
>> Speaker 1: Great, I'm gonna retype.
So we'll query_GetAllOfTheGrudges.
>> Speaker 1: And
we'll say listGrudges again.
The magic of autocomplete.
>> Speaker 1: And we say, nextToken.
We're gonna be slightly
underwhelmed at this point.
We'll just give it a shot.
It's null.
>> Speaker 1: nextToken is used for
pagination.
The reason it's null right now is
that we have gotten all of them.
So there is no next set of them, right?
But if you were to get all of them, it
gives you the place the dynamo left off in
to go and
pick up from where they went off.
So you don't get page 1 of 20, but you can
get a certain number, and then you can get
a token and say hey, start where I left
off and get me the next however many.
So I can go ahead and I can pass
an argument to this list view as well.
And through the magic of autocomplete,
we'll say limit, and
we'll say start me out with two.
>> Speaker 1: So
now, I get two, right?
And plus this wonderfully
unique nextToken.
And so now, if I pass this in,
>> Speaker 1: I'll pick up
where I left off, right?
So out of the box here,
you're gonna get pagination.
There's ultra filtering,
which we're not gonna go into right now.
But we get a bunch of stuff for
free out of this API.
And again, it's all backed by Dino,
it's all again like production
grade infrastructure, right?
So it's not like we have a toy app, but
I don't know how to transition it off
because my website got
surprisingly popular.
This is all the same AWS stuff that we use
at work, or I use at work at SanGrid, and
you just get it really quickly.
So you can test out your ideas and get a
working application done incredibly fast.
All right, so
we've played with it in the database, and
even the stuff that I did here is for
really reals stored inside of Dynamo.
So we go here, we Refresh, we go to Items.
You can see, I've got these three items.
They have the avenged, the deed.
These are in my actual database, right?
And so,
when I go to pull this into my app,
I'll actually start out with
some sample data in place.
So what we'll do is we'll actually
transition into a React app, and
we'll learn how do we get this
GraphQL out of the playground,
and how do we get it into
our React application?